2018-04-19 Saw in Sogou English homepage.

http://www.chicagotribune.com/business/ct-biz-starbucks-chicago-boycott-philadelphia-arrests-0418-story.html

Chicago Tribune

# Starbucks to close all U.S. stores afternoon of May 29 for anti-racial bias training

Starbucks announced April 17, 2018, that it would close all its U.S. 
stores May 29 to train workers against racial bias after the arrest of 
two black men in one of its Philadelphia cafes. (Jewel Samad / AFP/ 
Getty Images)

Lauren Zumbach

Chicago Tribune

APRIL 17, 2018, 6:00 PM

Starbucks has announced plans to close all U.S. stores and corporate 
offices on the afternoon of May 29 to train employees against racial 
bias after the arrest last week of two black men waiting at one of the 
company’s Philadelphia stores.

The training, which will close the more than 8,000 company-owned stores 
in the U.S., is designed to address implicit bias, promote conscious 
inclusion and prevent discrimination, the company said.

Meanwhile, outrage over the arrest is prompting calls for protests and 
boycotts, including some planned Wednesday at 10 Chicago stores.

“I’ve spent the last few days in Philadelphia with my leadership team 
listening to the community, learning what we did wrong and the steps we 
need to take to fix it,” Starbucks CEO Kevin Johnson said in a news 
release Tuesday. “While this is not limited to Starbucks, we’re 
committed to being a part of the solution. Closing our stores for racial 
bias training is just one step in a journey that requires dedication 
from every level of our company and partnerships in our local 
communities.”

Nearly 175,000 current employees and all new hires will receive the 
training, developed with national and local experts from groups 
including the Equal Justice Initiative, NAACP Legal Defense and 
Education Fund, Anti-Defamation League and former U.S. Attorney General 
Eric Holder. Those experts will also be involved in reviewing the 
program’s effectiveness, Starbucks said.

Starbucks isn’t the only company introducing the training in an effort 
to combat discrimination. American Airlines said it planned to roll out 
annual implicit bias training in January after the NAACP issued a travel 
advisory last fall that accused the airline of mistreating 
African-American passengers. Since last summer, more than 400 CEOs 
signed on to a pledge to roll out or expand unconscious bias education 
and take other steps to promote diversity, according to the CEO Action 
for Diversity & Inclusion initiative.

Phillip Jackson, chairman and founder of Chicago nonprofit The Black 
Star Project, called Starbucks’ plans to offer training “too little, 
too late.” Jackson said he’d like to see the chain and other national 
companies take broader steps to combat inequality.

The Black Star Project announced plans to boycott the chain and organize 
demonstrations Wednesday at 10 Chicago locations, including five Loop 
coffee shops and one store each in the Near North, Bronzeville, South 
Shore, Hyde Park and Buena Park neighborhoods.


Protests have already hit the Philadelphia store where the men were 
arrested Thursday, and the hashtag #BoycottStarbucks trended on Twitter 
as video of the incident spread online.

Video shows officers, who said the men were being arrested for 
trespassing, handcuffing them and leading them out of the store. Other 
customers protested, saying they weren’t doing anything wrong, 
including a man who told officers the men were waiting to meet with him. 
Both men were later released.

Philadelphia police released a recording of the call from the Starbucks 
employee that led to the arrests. In the recording, a woman is heard 
saying, "Hi, I have two gentlemen in my cafe that are refusing to make a 
purchase or leave." She gives the address of the Starbucks store, and 
the entire call lasts less than 30 seconds. In the communications 
between police and dispatch that were also released, someone refers to 
"a group of males inside causing a disturbance," and additional officers 
are sent.

Starbucks also is reviewing its training and practices, and Johnson met 
with the two men Monday to personally apologize, The Washington Post 
reported.

Associated Press contributed.

lzumbach@chicagotribune.com

Twitter @laurenzumbach
